Update Data Prepper opensearch sink documentation (#6386)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/opensearch.md

`cert` | No | String | Path to the security certificate, for example `"config/root-ca.pem"`, if the cluster uses the OpenSearch Security plugin.
`username` | No | String  | Username for HTTP basic authentication.
`password` | No | String | Password for HTTP basic authentication.
`aws` | No | AWS  | The [AWS](#aws) configuration. 
[max_retries](#configure-max_retries) | No | Integer | The maximum number of times the `opensearch` sink should try to push data to the OpenSearch server before considering it to be a failure. Defaults to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`. When not provided, the sink will try to push data to the OpenSearch server indefinitely and exponential backoff would increase the waiting time before a retry.
`socket_timeout` | No | Integer | The timeout length in milliseconds when waiting for data to return. In other words, the maximum period of inactivity between two consecutive data packets. A timeout value of `0` is interpreted as an infinite timeout. If this timeout value is negative or not set, the underlying Apache HttpClient would rely on operating system settings for managing socket timeouts.

> `connect_timeout` | No | Integer| The timeouti n milliseconds when requesting a connection from the connection manager. A timeout value of zero is interpreted as an infinite timeout. If this timeout value is negative or not set, the underlying Apache HttpClient would rely on operating system settings for managing connection timeouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`connect_timeout` | No | Integer| The timeout in milliseconds when requesting a connection from the connection manager. A timeout value of zero is interpreted as an infinite timeout. If this timeout value is negative or not set, the underlying Apache HttpClient would rely on operating system settings for managing connection timeouts.
```

`insecure` | No | Boolean  | Whether or not to verify SSL certificates. If set to true, certificate authority (CA) certificate verification is disabled and insecure HTTP requests are sent instead. Default is `false`.

> `proxy` | No | String | The address of the [forward HTTP proxy server](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_server). The format is "&lt;host name or IP&gt;:&lt;port&gt;", for example "example.com:8100", "http://example.com:8100", "112.112.112.112:8100". The port number cannot be omitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`proxy` | No | String | The address of the [forward HTTP proxy server](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_server). The format is `"&lt;hostname or IP&gt;:&lt;port&gt;"`, for example `"example.com:8100"`, `"http://example.com:8100"`, `"112.112.112.112:8100"`. The port number cannot be omitted.
```

> `index` | Conditionally | String | The name of the export index. Only required when the `index_type` is `custom`. The index can be a plain string such as `my-index-name`, contain [Java date-time patterns](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html) such as `my-index-${yyyy.MM.dd}` or `my-${yyyy-MM-dd-HH}-index`, be formatted using field values such as `my-index-${/my_field}`, or use [Data Prepper expressions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/) such as `my-index-${getMetadata(\"my_metadata_field\"}`. All syntaxes can be combined to provide flexibility when creating static, dynamic, and rolling indexes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`index` | Conditionally | String | The name of the export index. Only required when the `index_type` is `custom`. The index can be a plain string such as `my-index-name`, contain [Java date-time patterns](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/time/format/DateTimeFormatter.html) such as `my-index-${yyyy.MM.dd}` or `my-${yyyy-MM-dd-HH}-index`, be formatted using field values such as `my-index-${/my_field}`, or use [Data Prepper expressions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/) such as `my-index-${getMetadata(\"my_metadata_field\"}`. All formatting options can be combined to provide flexibility when creating static, dynamic, and rolling indexes. 
```

`region` | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).
`sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).
`sts_header_overrides` | No | Map | A map of header overrides that the IAM role assumes for the sink plugin.
`sts_external_id` | No | String | The external ID to attach to AssumeRole requests from AWS STS.
`serverless` | No | Boolean | Determines whether the OpenSearch backend is Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. Set this value to `true` when the destination for the `opensearch` sink is an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Default is `false`.
`serverless_options` | No | Object | The network configuration options available when the backend of the `opensearch` sink is set to Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. For more information, see [Serverless options](#serverless-options).

## actions

> The following options can be used insie the `actions` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following options can be used inside the `actions` option.
```

template_file | No | String | The path to a JSON [index template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/) file such as `/your/local/template-file.json` when `index_type` is set to `custom`.  For an example template file, see [otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/src/main/resources/otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json). If you supply a template file it must match the template format specified by the `template_type` parameter.

> document_id_field | No | String | The field from the source data to use for the OpenSearch document ID (for example, `"my-field"`) if `index_type` is `custom`.

Reviewer 2: We should keep this field and note to users that it is deprecated in favor of `document_id`.

number_of_replicas | No | Integer | The number of replica shards each primary shard should have on the destination OpenSearch server. For example, if you have 4 primary shards and set number_of_replicas to 3, the index has 12 replica shards. This parameter is effective only when `template_file` is either explicitly provided in Sink configuration or built-in. If this parameter is set, it would override the value in index template file. For more information, see [Create index]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/create-index/).
distribution_version | No | String | Indicates whether the sink backend version is Elasticsearch 6 or later. `es6` represents Elasticsearch 6. `default` represents the latest compatible backend version, such as Elasticsearch 7.x, OpenSearch 1.x, or OpenSearch 2.x. Default is `default`.
enable_request_compression | No | Boolean | Whether to enable compression when sending requests to OpenSearch. When `distribution_version` is set to `es6`, default is `false`. For all other distribution versions, default is `true`. 

> serverless | No | Boolean | Determines whether the OpenSearch backend is Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. Set this value to `true` when the destination for the `opensearch` sink is an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Default is `false`.

Reviewer 2: We should keep these values and note that they are deprecated in favor of the `aws` options.

* serverless
* serverless_options

Reviewer: These are included in the `aws` section already on lines 101 under the AWS section, and they appeared in the same section before. Are the settings deprecated?

Reviewer: To clarify, use the options under the `AWS` configuration and not the root, but keep the two serverless options under the root configurations stating that they are deprecated?

`template_file` | No | String | The path to a JSON [index template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/) file such as `/your/local/template-file.json` when `index_type` is set to `custom`.  For an example template file, see [otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/data-prepper-plugins/opensearch/src/main/resources/otel-v1-apm-span-index-template.json). If you supply a template file it must match the template format specified by the `template_type` parameter.

> `template_content` | No | JSON | All inline JSON for the [index template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/). For an example of template content, see [the example template content](#example_template_content).

Reviewer: More accurate would be "Contains all the inline JSON found inside of the index template". Not sure if that changes the suggestion here.

> `template_content` | No | JSON | All inline JSON for the [index template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/). For an example of template content, see [the example template content](#example_template_content).

Reviewer 3: Works for me 😄

> `template_content` | No | JSON | All inline JSON for the [index template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/). For an example of template content, see [the example template content](#example_template_content).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`template_content` | No | JSON | Contains all the inline JSON found inside of the index  [index template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/index-templates/). For an example of template content, see [the example template content](#example_template_content).
```

> `document_id_field` | No | String | **(Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7 in favor of `document_id`)** The field from the source data to use for the OpenSearch document ID (for example, `"my-field"`) if `index_type` is `custom`.

Reviewer: The source data itself contains multiple fields.

> `document_id_field` | No | String | **(Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7 in favor of `document_id`)** The field from the source data to use for the OpenSearch document ID (for example, `"my-field"`) if `index_type` is `custom`.

Reviewer: How about "The ID field from the source data to use for the...."

> `document_id_field` | No | String | **(Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7 in favor of `document_id`)** The field from the source data to use for the OpenSearch document ID (for example, `"my-field"`) if `index_type` is `custom`.

Reviewer 3: Yes, I like that better 👍

`distribution_version` | No | String  | Indicates whether the sink backend version is Elasticsearch 6 or later. `es6` represents Elasticsearch 6. `default` represents the latest compatible backend version, such as Elasticsearch 7.x, OpenSearch 1.x, or OpenSearch 2.x. Default is `default`.
`enable_request_compression` | No | Boolean | Whether to enable compression when sending requests to OpenSearch. When `distribution_version` is set to `es6`, default is `false`. For all other distribution versions, default is `true`.
`action` | No | String | The OpenSearch bulk action to use for documents. Must be one of `create`, `index`, `update`, `upsert`, or `delete`. The default value is `index`.

> `actions` | No | List | A [list of actions](#actions) that can be used as an alternative to `action` that reads as a switch case statement which conditionally determines the bulk action to take for an event. 

Reviewer 3: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

> `flush_timeout` | No | Long | A long class that contains the duration in milliseconds to try packing a bulk request up to the `bulk_size` before flushing the request. If this timeout expires before a bulk request has reached the `bulk_size`, the request will be flushed. Set to `-1` to disable the flush timeout and instead flush whatever is present at the end of each batch. Default is `60,000` or one minute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`flush_timeout` | No | Long | A long class that contains the amount of time, in milliseconds, to try packing a bulk request up to the `bulk_size` before flushing the request. If this timeout expires before a bulk request has reached the `bulk_size`, the request will be flushed. Set to `-1` to disable the flush timeout and instead flush whatever is present at the end of each batch. Default is `60,000`, or 1 minute.
```

> `normalize_index` | No | Boolean | If true, the OpenSearch sink will try to make dynamic index names. Index names with format options specified in `${})` valid according to the [index naming restrictions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/create-index/#index-naming-restrictions). Any invalid characters will be removed. Default value is false.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`normalize_index` | No | Boolean | If true, then the OpenSearch sink will try to create dynamic index names. Index names with format options specified in `${})` are valid according to the [index naming restrictions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/create-index/#index-naming-restrictions). Any invalid characters will be removed. Default value is `false`.
```

> `normalize_index` | No | Boolean | If true, the OpenSearch sink will try to make dynamic index names. Index names with format options specified in `${})` valid according to the [index naming restrictions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/index-apis/create-index/#index-naming-restrictions). Any invalid characters will be removed. Default value is false.

Reviewer 3: I wasn't quite certain re: the meaning of the second sentence, so please confirm.

Reviewer: Would "...specified inside the following characters...?" help?

Reviewer 3: Yes, that would add more clarity, but I think we're missing a verb after the characters, so I inserted "are" but wasn't sure if that was the intended meaning.

> `routing` | No | String | A string which is used as a hash for generating the `shard_id` for the document when it is stored in the OpenSearch. Each incoming record is searched for this field. When present, the string is used as the routing field for the document. When not present, the default routing mechanism of using `document_id` is used by OpenSearch when storing the document. Supports formatting with fields in the Events and [Data Prepper expressions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/), such as `${/my_field}-test-${getMetadata(\"some_metadata_key\")}`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`routing` | No | String | A string used as a hash for generating the `shard_id` for a document when it is stored in OpenSearch. Each incoming record is searched. When present, the string is used as the routing field for the document. When not present, the default routing mechanism (`document_id`) is used by OpenSearch when storing the document. Supports formatting with fields in events and [Data Prepper expressions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/), such as `${/my_field}-test-${getMetadata(\"some_metadata_key\")}`.
```

> `routing` | No | String | A string which is used as a hash for generating the `shard_id` for the document when it is stored in the OpenSearch. Each incoming record is searched for this field. When present, the string is used as the routing field for the document. When not present, the default routing mechanism of using `document_id` is used by OpenSearch when storing the document. Supports formatting with fields in the Events and [Data Prepper expressions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/), such as `${/my_field}-test-${getMetadata(\"some_metadata_key\")}`

Reviewer 3: Should a noun follow "hash" (value? function?)? Can the first sentence just be "A string used as a hash [noun] for generating the `shard_id` for a document stored in OpenSearch"?

Reviewer: How about starting the sentence with "A hash string?"

Reviewer 3: No noun per discussion.

> `document_root_key` | No | String  | The key in the event that will be used as the root in the document. The default is the root of the event. If the key does not exist the entire event is written as the document. If the value at the `document_root_key `is of a basic value type such as a string or integer, the document will have a structure of `{"data": <value of the document_root_key>}`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`document_root_key` | No | String  | The key in the event that will be used as the root in the document. The default is the root of the event. If the key does not exist, then the entire event is written as the document. If `document_root_key` is of a basic value type, such as a string or integer, then the document will have a structure of `{"data": <value of the document_root_key>}`.
```

`serverless` | No | Boolean | Determines whether the OpenSearch backend is Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. Set this value to `true` when the destination for the `opensearch` sink is an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Default is `false`.
`serverless_options` | No | Object | The network configuration options available when the backend of the `opensearch` sink is set to Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. For more information, see [Serverless options](#serverless-options).

<!-- vale on -->

## aws

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `region` | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).

Reviewer 3: Should "the" precede "standard" (as in the following line)?

Reviewer: I think it sounds better to remove "the" from the second option, since standard behavior could encompass multiple behavior types depending on the cluster settings versus a specific one, which "the" implies.

> `sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).

Reviewer 3: I'm assuming that Amazon SQS and Amazon S3 have been defined earlier in the doc.

> `sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).
```

`sts_header_overrides` | No | Map | A map of header overrides that the IAM role assumes for the sink plugin.
`sts_external_id` | No | String | The external ID to attach to AssumeRole requests from AWS STS.

> `serverless` | No | Boolean | **(Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7. Use this option under the `aws` configuration instead.)** Determines whether the OpenSearch backend is Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. Set this value to `true` when the destination for the `opensearch` sink is an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Default is `false`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`serverless` | No | Boolean | **Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7. Use this option with the `aws` configuration instead.** Determines whether the OpenSearch backend is Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. Set this value to `true` when the destination for the `opensearch` sink is an Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection. Default is `false`.
```

> `serverless_options` | No | Object | **(Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7. Use this option under the `aws` configuration instead.)** The network configuration options available when the backend of the `opensearch` sink is set to Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. For more information, see [Serverless options](#serverless-options).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`serverless_options` | No | Object | **Deprecated in Data Prepper 2.7. Use this option with the `aws` configuration instead.** The network configuration options available when the backend of the `opensearch` sink is set to Amazon OpenSearch Serverless. For more information, see [Serverless options](#serverless-options).
```

<!-- vale off -->
## actions
<!-- vale on -->

The following options can be used inside the `actions` option.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- |:---| :--- | :---
`type` | Yes | String | The type of bulk action to use if the `when` condition evaluates to true. Must be either `create`, `index`, `update`, `upsert`, or `delete`.

> `when` | No | String | A [Data Prepper expression]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/) to conditionally evaluate whether an event will be sent to OpenSearch using the bulk action configured in `type`. When empty, the bulk action will be chosen automatically when the event is sent to OpenSearch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`when` | No | String | A [Data Prepper expression]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/expression-syntax/) that conditionally evaluates whether an event will be sent to OpenSearch using the bulk action configured in `type`. When empty, the bulk action will be chosen automatically when the event is sent to OpenSearch.
```

## Serverless options

The following options can be used in the `serverless_options` object.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---| :---
`network_policy_name` | Yes | String | The name of the network policy to create.
`collection_name` | Yes | String | The name of the Amazon OpenSearch Serverless collection to configure.

> `vpce_id` | Yes | String | The virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint to which the source connects.

Reviewer 3: If this is referring to a generic VPC, then it is correct as written. If it is referring to Amazon VPC, then it should be "The Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) endpoint".

Reviewer: Generic. Theoretically, someone couple use AWS with their own non-AWS VPC.

          sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::<AccountId>:role/PipelineRole"
          region: "us-east-1"
```

> ### Example with template_content and actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example with template_content and actions <a id="example_template_content"></a>
```

> ### <a id="example_template_content"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

          sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::<AccountId>:role/PipelineRole"
          region: "us-east-1"
```

### Example with template_content and actions <a id="example_template_content"></a>

> The following example pipeline contains both `template_content` and a list of conditional `actions`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example pipeline contains both `template_content` and a list of conditional `actions`:
```
